Add metrics collection and metrics-based dashboards info to Memcached OTel app doc (#4219)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/databases/opentelemetry/memcached-opentelemetry.md

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/databases/memcached.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/otel-color.svg')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="45"/>

> The [Memcached](https://memcached.org/about) app is a logs based app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, health, and resource utilization of your Memcached clusters. Preconfigured dashboards provide insight into operational metrics, cache performance, resource utilization, errors, warnings, and commands executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Memcached](https://memcached.org/about) app is a logs-based app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, health, and resource utilization of your Memcached clusters. Preconfigured dashboards provide insight into operational metrics, cache performance, resource utilization, errors, warnings, and commands executed.
```

Following are the [Fields](/docs/manage/fields/) which will be created as part of Memcached App install if not already present.

- **`sumo.datasource`**. Has a fixed value of **memcached**.
- **`db.system`**. Has a fixed value of **memcached**
- **`deployment.environment`**. User configured. This is the deployment environment where the Memcache cluster resides. For example: dev, prod or qa.

> - **`db.cluster.name`**. User configured. Enter a name to identify this Memcache cluster. This cluster name will be shown in the Sumo Logic dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`db.cluster.name`**. User configured. Enter a name to identify this Memcached cluster. This cluster name will be shown in the Sumo Logic dashboards.
```

The files are typically located in `/var/log/memcached/memcached.log`. If you're using a customized path, check the respective conf file (default location: `/etc/memcached.conf`) for this information.

> For metrics you are required to provide the memcached endpoint (default endpoint for memcache is localhost:11211) along with the collection_interval. Collection interval is set to 1 minute by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For metrics, you're required to provide the Memcached endpoint (default is localhost:11211) along with the `collection_interval` (default is 1 minute).
```

<LogsOutro/>

> ## Sample log message

Reviewer: These are standard headers throughout all apps docs that we keep plural by default (even if there's only one example)

```suggestion
## Sample log messages
```

```
Jun 23 07:35:01 node03 memcached: \
<31 set GFcIh47CswfCnwk3JkmJ 0 0 4096
```

> ## Sample metric message

Reviewer: These are standard headers throughout all apps docs that we keep plural by default (even if there's only one example)

```suggestion
## Sample metric messages

```

> ## Sample metric message
> ```

Reviewer: These are standard headers throughout all apps docs that we keep plural by default (even if there's only one example)

```suggestion
## Sample metric messages

```
```

> {"queryId":"A","_source":"memcached-otel","_metricId":"lU4jhUa6YoiLX9eJZGHHjA","_sourceName":"Http Input","host.id":"i-0cc7753247bad73ae","host.group":"memcachedlinux","os.type":"linux","sumo.datasource":"memcached","db.system":"memcached","command":"touch","db.node.name":"ip-172-31-64-180.ec2.internal","_sourceCategory":"Labs/memcached-otel","deployment.environment":"memcachedlinux","_contentType":"Carbon2","host.name":"ip-172-31-64-180.ec2.internal","metric":"memcached.commands","_collectorId":"000000000F90B095","_sourceId":"00000000594E7C3A","unit":"{commands}","db.cluster.name":"test","_collector":"Labs - memcached-otel","max":10,"min":0,"avg":7,"sum":70,"latest":10,"count":10}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{
  "queryId": "A",
  "_source": "memcached-otel",
  "_metricId": "lU4jhUa6YoiLX9eJZGHHjA",
  "_sourceName": "Http Input",
  "host.id": "i-0cc7753247bad73ae",
  "host.group": "memcachedlinux",
  "os.type": "linux",
  "sumo.datasource": "memcached",
  "db.system": "memcached",
  "command": "touch",
  "db.node.name": "ip-172-31-64-180.ec2.internal",
  "_sourceCategory": "Labs/memcached-otel",
  "deployment.environment": "memcachedlinux",
  "_contentType": "Carbon2",
  "host.name": "ip-172-31-64-180.ec2.internal",
  "metric": "memcached.commands",
  "_collectorId": "000000000F90B095",
  "_sourceId": "00000000594E7C3A",
  "unit": "{commands}",
  "db.cluster.name": "test",
  "_collector": "Labs - memcached-otel",
  "max": 10,
  "min": 0,
  "avg": 7,
  "sum": 70,
  "latest": 10,
  "count": 10
}
```

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Memcached-Cache-Information.png' alt="Memcached dashboards" />

### Logs

The **Memcached - Logs** dashboard helps you quickly analyze your Memcached error logs, commands executed, and objects stored.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/databases/Memcached-Logs.png')} alt="Memcached dashboards" />

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Memcached-Logs.png' alt="Memcached dashboards" />

## Memcached Alerts

Sumo Logic has provided out-of-the-box alerts available via [Sumo Logic monitors](/docs/alerts/monitors) to help you quickly determine if the Memcached database cluster is available and performing as expected.

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>Alert Name </td>
   <td>Alert Description   </td>
   <td>Trigger Type (Critical / Warning)   </td>
   <td>Alert Condition </td>
   <td>Recover Condition   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Memcached - Commands Error </td>
   <td>This alert fires when we detect command errors.   </td>
   <td>Critical   </td>
   <td> &#62; 0   </td>
   <td> &#60;&#61; 0 </td>

>   </tr>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  </tr>
  <tr>
```

| timeslice by 1h 
| sum(ERROR) as ERROR by _timeslice
```

> ## Sample metrics query

Reviewer: These are standard headers throughout all apps docs that we keep plural by default (even if there's only one example)

```suggestion
## Sample metrics queries
```

**Total Get**

```
sumo.datasource=memcached deployment.environment=* db.cluster.name=* db.node.name=* metric=memcached.commands command=get | sum
```

> ## Create monitors for the Sumo Logic Audit app

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be the Memcached app?

Author: Thanks for pointing that out. Corrected.

> import CreateMonitors from '../../reuse/apps/create-monitors.md';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import CreateMonitors from '../../../reuse/apps/create-monitors.md';
```

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Memcached-Cache-Information.png' alt="Memcached dashboards" />

### Logs

The **Memcached - Logs** dashboard helps you quickly analyze your Memcached error logs, commands executed, and objects stored.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/databases/Memcached-Logs.png')} alt="Memcached dashboards" />

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Memcached-Logs.png' alt="Memcached dashboards" />

## Memcached Alerts

Sumo Logic has provided out-of-the-box alerts available via [Sumo Logic monitors](/docs/alerts/monitors) to help you quickly determine if the Memcached database cluster is available and performing as expected.

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>Alert Name </td>
   <td>Alert Description   </td>
   <td>Trigger Type (Critical / Warning)   </td>
   <td>Alert Condition </td>
   <td>Recover Condition   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Memcached - Commands Error </td>
   <td>This alert fires when we detect command errors.   </td>
   <td>Critical   </td>
   <td> &#62; 0   </td>
   <td> &#60;&#61; 0 </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Memcached - High Memory Usage </td>

>    <td>This alert fires when the memory usage is greater than configured threshold value </td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <td>This alert fires when the memory usage is greater than configured threshold value.</td>
```

   <td>Warning   </td>
   <td> &#62;80 </td>
   <td> &#60;&#61; 80   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Memcached - Cache Hit Ratio   </td>

>    <td>The hit rate is one of the most important indicators of Memcached performance. A high hit rate means faster responses to your users. If the hit rate is falling, you need quick visibility into why. This alert gets fired low cache hit ratio is less than 50%   </td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <td>The hit rate is one of the most important indicators of Memcached performance. A high hit rate means faster responses to your users. If the hit rate is falling, you need quick visibility into why. This alert gets fired low cache hit ratio is less than 50%.</td>
```

>    <td>The hit rate is one of the most important indicators of Memcached performance. A high hit rate means faster responses to your users. If the hit rate is falling, you need quick visibility into why. This alert gets fired low cache hit ratio is less than 50%   </td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <td>The hit rate is one of the most important indicators of Memcached performance. A high hit rate means faster responses to your users. If the hit rate is falling, you need quick visibility into why. This alert gets fired low cache hit ratio is less than 50%.</td>
```

| timeslice by 1h 
| sum(ERROR) as ERROR by _timeslice
```
## Sample metrics queries
**Total Get**

```
sumo.datasource=memcached deployment.environment=* db.cluster.name=* db.node.name=* metric=memcached.commands command=get | sum
```

## Create monitors for the Sumo Logic Memcached app

import CreateMonitors from '../../../reuse/apps/create-monitors.md';

> ## Viewing Memcached Dashboards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Viewing Memcached dashboards
```

### Overview

The **Memcached - Overview** dashboard provides an at-a-glance view of the Memcached server status, error logs, and database metrics.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Memcached-OpenTelemetry/Memcached-Overview.png' alt="Memcached dashboards" />

### Operations

> The **Memcached - Operations** Dashboard provides detailed analysis on connections, thread requested, network bytes, table size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Memcached - Operations** dashboard provides detailed analysis on connections, thread requested, network bytes, and table size.
```

The **Memcached - Cache Information** dashboard provides insight into cache states, cache hit, and miss rate over time.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Memcached-OpenTelemetry/Memcached-Cache-Information.png' alt="Memcached dashboards" />

### Logs

The **Memcached - Logs** dashboard helps you quickly analyze your Memcached error logs, commands executed, and objects stored.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/Memcached-Logs.png' alt="Memcached dashboards" />

## Memcached Alerts

Sumo Logic has provided out-of-the-box alerts available via [Sumo Logic monitors](/docs/alerts/monitors) to help you quickly determine if the Memcached database cluster is available and performing as expected.

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>Alert Name </td>
   <td>Alert Description   </td>
   <td>Trigger Type (Critical / Warning)   </td>
   <td>Alert Condition </td>
   <td>Recover Condition   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Memcached - Commands Error </td>
   <td>This alert fires when we detect command errors.   </td>
   <td>Critical   </td>
   <td> &#62; 0   </td>
   <td> &#60;&#61; 0 </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Memcached - High Memory Usage </td>

>    <td>This alert fires when the memory usage is greater than configured threshold value.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   <td>This alert fires when the memory usage is greater than the configured threshold value.</td>
```

   <td>Warning   </td>
   <td> &#62;80 </td>
   <td> &#60;&#61; 80   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Memcached - Cache Hit Ratio   </td>

>    <td>The hit rate is one of the most important indicators of Memcached performance. A high hit rate means faster responses to your users. If the hit rate is falling, you need quick visibility into why. This alert gets fired low cache hit ratio is less than 50%.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   <td>The hit rate is one of the most important indicators of Memcached performance. A high hit rate means faster responses to your users. If the hit rate is falling, you need quick visibility into why. This alert gets fired if the low cache hit ratio is less than 50%.</td>
```

   <td>Critical </td>
   <td> &#60;&#61;50   </td>
   <td> &#62;50   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Memcached - High Number of Connections   </td>

>    <td>This alert fires when the number of current connection for memcached exceed given threshold. </td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   <td>This alert fires when the number of current connection for Memcached exceed the given threshold. </td>
```
